Rtrieu/docs 5250 mobile session replay (#18440)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/app_performance.md

---
title: How Mobile Session Replay Impacts App Performance
kind: documentation

> description: Describes performance benchmarking for Mobile Session Replay

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Performance benchmarking for Mobile Session Replay.
```

aliases:
further_reading:
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/privacy_options'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay Privacy Options
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/setup_and_configuration'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Setup and Configure Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/troubleshooting'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Troubleshoot Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Session Replay
---

## Overview
Session Replay leverages the existing mechanisms of batching and smart upload from the Datadog SDK core. These mechanisms enable efficient and optimized data transfer from your application to Datadog servers. By batching multiple events together and intelligently uploading them at appropriate intervals, Session Replay minimizes the overall impact on network and bandwidth usage while ensuring an efficient utilization of network resources.

> This page describes how the Mobile Session Replay SDK is designed to support a seamless user experience without impacting your application's performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mobile Session Replay SDK supports a seamless user experience without impacting your application's performance.
```

## Main thread
The system responsible for capturing the current screen of your application runs in the UI Thread, which can potentially cause UI updates to be delayed. However, Datadog uses highly optimized processes to minimize the workload the SDK performs in the UI Thread.

Screens are captured between 64 ms to 100 ms (depending on the platform) and single screen capture takes 3 ms. All processing of the collected data happens on the background thread, without affecting your application's performance.

## Network
To minimize the total upload volume, Datadog employs a highly optimized wire format. As a result, you can expect to see an average bandwidth usage of around 12 KB/s for data sent to the Datadog servers on iOS, and 1.22 KB/s on Android. When image recording is enabled, applications with image-heavy content may experience a slightly higher initial volume. In cases when the device is disconnected from the network, the data is buffered to the device's disk storage until a high-bandwidth connection is reestablished.

## App size

> Datadog's SDK follows strict standards and aims to minimize the inclusion of third-party dependencies. This approach ensures that the SDK leverages as much native framework code as possible. As a result, the Android package is only 2.1 MB for the AAR file. On iOS, Datadog provides a pre-built binary that is approximately 6 MB in size. These optimizations allow for a more efficient and lightweight integration of Datadog's SDK into your projects.

Reviewer 2: So for Android we can say that: "The binary size produced by our own code in the `aar` package is 480 KB. This does not take into account the transitive dependencies that we are using but based on our investigations these should not increase too much this number. You can have more information here: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-android/blob/develop/docs/sdk_performance.md?plain=1#L119"

> Datadog's SDK follows strict standards and aims to minimize the inclusion of third-party dependencies. This approach ensures that the SDK leverages as much native framework code as possible. As a result, the Android package is only 2.1 MB for the AAR file. On iOS, Datadog provides a pre-built binary that is approximately 6 MB in size. These optimizations allow for a more efficient and lightweight integration of Datadog's SDK into your projects.

Reviewer 3: For iOS, something following (the new number is 200kB, not 6MB):
```diff
- On iOS, Datadog provides a pre-built binary that is approximately 6 MB in size.
+ On iOS, the size of exported `*.ipa` file will be higher by approximately 200kB.
```

> Datadog's SDK follows strict standards and aims to minimize the inclusion of third-party dependencies. This approach ensures that the SDK leverages as much native framework code as possible. As a result, the Android package is only 2.1 MB for the AAR file. On iOS, Datadog provides a pre-built binary that is approximately 6 MB in size. These optimizations allow for a more efficient and lightweight integration of Datadog's SDK into your projects.

Reviewer 4: updated

## Disk
To ensure on-device persistence, event data is streamed to cache storage. Disk access has been optimized to minimize the number of input/output (IO) cycles required when writing and uploading the data to the Datadog servers. Datadog utilizes temporary storage that can be reclaimed by the operating system if your application requires critical storage space.

Datadog is committed to delivering the highest level of performance and efficiency with the Session Replay for mobile, which on average, stores 190 KB/s to disk on iOS, and X KB/s on Android. Again in this case, image-heavy content may result in slightly higher initial volume.

## App size
Datadog's SDK follows strict standards and aims to minimize the inclusion of third-party dependencies. This approach ensures that the SDK leverages as much native framework code as possible. As a result, the Android package is only 2.1 MB for the AAR file. On iOS, Datadog provides a pre-built binary that is approximately 6 MB in size. These optimizations allow for a more efficient and lightweight integration of Datadog's SDK into your projects.

> 

Reviewer 2: Here we need to add a section explaining that for Session Replay to properly work you will first need to enable Datadog RUM feature in your application with minimal view/action auto tracking and provide the links to the docs:
https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/android
https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios

To minimize the total upload volume, Datadog employs a highly optimized wire format. As a result, you can expect to see an average bandwidth usage of around 12 KB/s for data sent to the Datadog servers on iOS, and 1.22 KB/s on Android. When image recording is enabled, applications with image-heavy content may experience a slightly higher initial volume. In cases when the device is disconnected from the network, the data is buffered to the device's disk storage until a high-bandwidth connection is reestablished.

## App size

> Datadog's SDK follows strict standards and aims to minimize the inclusion of third-party dependencies. This approach ensures that the SDK leverages as much native framework code as possible. On Android, the binary size produced by our own code in the AAR package is 480 kB. More infomration here [https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-android/blob/develop/docs/sdk_performance.md?plain=1#L119]. On iOS, the size of exported `*.ipa` file will be higher by approximately 200 kB.

Reviewer: The link needs a target

Author: @kayayarai Thanks for catching that. Fixed!
